README.md, before:

# Chronicle-Engine
A high performance, low latency, reactive processing framework

## Feature comparison
| Features                                           | Chronicle Engine | Chronicle Enterprise |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| Hierarchical Data Organisation             | tree structure      | tree structure          |
| Remote access to Custom server side code | yes               | yes                       |
| Reactive Notification of changes           | yes                   | yes                        |
| Data View Virtualisation                      | yes                    | yes                       |
| Response time                                    | sub-milli-second | 10 micro-seconds   |
| Throughput Bandwidth/server (durable) | 100 MB/s           | 1 GB/s                  |
| Throughput Requests/sec/server (durable) | 1 M/s             | 10 M/s                  |
| Horizontal Scalability                           | 1 to 10              | 1 to 100                    |
| Data Access                                      | remote only         | Managed* remote   |
| LAN Replication                                 | TCP only           | Managed* TCP         |
| WAN Replication                                 | same as LAN      | Multi-cluster replication |
| User based access control                    | pluggable          | LDAP and Active Directory |
| Auditability of access                          | pluggable           | yes                       |
| Work distribution model                      | pluggable           | yes                       |
| Client side caching                              | pluggable          | yes                       |
| Monitoring Tools                                 | pluggable          | JMX & HTML5         |
| Pluggable backed data stores                | pluggable          | LDAP, JDBC, Camel |
| Cluster management (multi-server)        | pluggable          | yes                       |
| Code warmup on startup                      | no                     | yes                      |
| Dynamic code loading                         | no                     | yes                      |
| Distributed Locking                             | no                    | yes                       |
| C#, Excel client                                   | no                    | yes                      |
| C+ client                                            | no                    | planned                |

Managed* means compressed, encrypted, traffic shaping and centrally monitored.

## Features descriptions
### Hierarchical Data Organisation
The framework acts as a smart file system.

Each collections of data or services is an "Asset" on a tree.  Controls and configuration can be applied to any branch of a tree.  You can remotely access a branch of a tree from one machine to another.

```java
ConcurrentMap<String, String> map = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

TopicPublisher<String, String> pub = acquireTopicPublisher("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

pub.registerTopicSubscriber((k, v) -> System.out.println("key: " + k + ", value: " + v);

// these will trigger the topic subscriber to print;
// key: Hello, value: world
map.put("Hello", "world");
// or
pub.publish("Hello", "world");

String world = map.get("Hello");
```

### remote access to Custom Server side code.
Chronicle Engine supports serialization of lambdas as well as execution of predefined functions by name.

```java
// works on the server or the client.
String value = map.computeIfAbsent("hello", () -> "world");

Map<String, UUID> map2 = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/uuids", String.class, UUID.class);
registerTopicSubscriber(""/group1/sub-group/uuids", String.class, UUID.class, (k, uuid) -> System.out.println("key: " + k + ", uuid: " + uuid);

// for a new uuid the listener prints:
// key: user1, uuid: e2d9e382-2c98-4027-9019-8536fcee3225
UUID uuid = map2.computeIfAbsent("user1", UUID::randomUUID());
```

In this example a user's profile is updates and a listerner is subscribed to changes for that user.
```java
MapView<String, UserProfile> map3 = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/users", String.class, UserProfile.class);

// subscribe to changes to jill's profile
Subscriber<UserProfile> jillSubscription = up -> System.out::println;
registerSubscriber("/group1/sub-group/users/jill", UserProfile.class, jillSubscriber);

// triggers an event which is sent to the jillSubscription
map3.asyncUpdate("jill", UserProfile::incrementUsage);

// doesn't triggers an event for jillSubscription
map3.asyncUpdate("bob", UserProfile::incrementUsage);

class UserProfile {
    long counter;

    public static UserProfile incrementUsage(UserProfile up) {
         if (up == null)
             up = new UserProfile();
         up.counter++;
         return up;
    }
}
```

### Reactive Notification of changes
As seen in the previous example, you can subscribe to change to a map.  If you need more details, you can subscribe to MapEvent(s)

```
Subscriber<TopologicalEvent> topSubscriber = e -> System.out.println("The tree has changed "+e);
registerSubscriber("/group1/sub-group",  TopologicalEvent.class, topSubscriber);

// If map is created dynamically this will trigger
// AddedAssetEvent{ assetName= '/group1/sub-group', name='map' }
ConcurrentMap<String, String> map = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

map.put("one", "won");

// print events as they happen
Subscriber<MapEvent> mapSubscriber = System.out::println;

// triggers a bootstrap of
// InsertedEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'one', value='won' }
registerSubscriber("/group1/sub-group/map", MapEvent.class, mapSubscriber);

// triggers an event
// InsertedEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'two', value='too' }
map.put("two", "too");

// triggers an event
// UpdateEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'two', oldValue = 'too', value='to' }
map.put("two", "too");

// triggers an event
// RemovedEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'one', oldValue = 'won' }
map.remove("one"));
```

### Data View Virtualisation
The same data store can can access in multiple ways to suit the use case of the Developer.  Say a user case is pub/sub but we want the latest value.

```
// setup the publisher for different topics.
TopicPublisher<String, String> pub = acquireTopicPublisher("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

// register a subscriber for any topic in a group on another machine.
registerTopicSubscriber("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class, (k, v) -> System.out.println("key: " + k + ", value: " + v);

// a third machine just wants to be able to see the latest value
ConcurrentMap<String, String> map = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

// these will trigger the topic subscriber to print;
// key: Hello, value: world
map.put("Hello", "world");
// or
pub.publish("Hello", "world");

// to get the latest value.
String world = map.get("Hello");
```

### Low latency repsonse time.
Chronicle Engine which be design and tested to support sub-milli-second response times.  A single client should be able to achieve 10K requests per second with 99.9% of requests being under a milli-second.

Chronicle Enterprise will be tested to a higher spec and will have more heavily optimised components.  A single client should be able to achieve 100K requests per second with 99% of requests being under 100 micro-seconds.

### Code warmup on startup.
Chronicle Engine makes it easy to create a dummy engine to assist in warming up the code you will need in production.

Chronicle Enterprise can trigger the compilation of methods from a previous run e.g. in UAT.  Capture the output of -XX:+PrintCompilation, edit to taste, and use this file to trigger the compilation of these methods on start up.  This works for standard OpenJDK and Oracle JVMs.

```java
// load the methods compiled previously.
Warmup warmup = Warmup.compileFromFile(new File("print-compilation.txt")));
// print out the methods which will be compiled and to which level.
warmup.dump((m, l) -> System.out.println(m + " => " + l));
// start enqueuing the methods to be compiled in the background.
warmup.start();
// wait for those methods to be compiled.
warmup.waitFor();
```

If you have an object to navigate such as an AssetTree you can compile everything it uses and everything that uses etc.
```java
AssetTree tree = // tree of objects.

// load the methods compiled previously.
Warmup warmup = new Warmup();
// print out the methods which will be compiled and to which level.
warmup.compileForInstance(tree);
// start enqueuing the methods to be compiled in the background.
warmup.start();
// wait for those methods to be compiled.
warmup.waitFor();
```

# More details to come.

Commit message:

CE-117 moved support for NFS into the chronicle engine

README.md, after:

# Chronicle-Engine
A high performance, low latency, reactive processing framework

## Feature comparison
| Features                                           | Chronicle Engine | Chronicle Enterprise |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| Hierarchical Data Organisation             | tree structure      | tree structure          |
| Remote access to Custom server side code | yes               | yes                       |
| Reactive Notification of changes           | yes                   | yes                        |
| Data View Virtualisation                      | yes                    | yes                       |
| Response time                                    | sub-milli-second | 10 micro-seconds   |
| Throughput Bandwidth/server (durable) | 100 MB/s           | 1 GB/s                  |
| Throughput Requests/sec/server (durable) | 1 M/s             | 10 M/s                  |
| Horizontal Scalability                           | 1 to 10              | 1 to 100                    |
| Data Access                                      | remote only         | Managed* remote   |
| LAN Replication                                 | TCP only           | Managed* TCP         |
| WAN Replication                                 | same as LAN      | Multi-cluster replication |
| User based access control                    | pluggable          | LDAP and Active Directory |
| Auditability of access                          | pluggable           | yes                       |
| Work distribution model                      | pluggable           | yes                       |
| Client side caching                              | pluggable          | yes                       |
| Monitoring Tools                                 | pluggable          | JMX & HTML5         |
| Pluggable backed data stores                | pluggable          | LDAP, JDBC, Camel |
| Cluster management (multi-server)        | pluggable          | yes                       |
| Code warmup on startup                      | no                     | yes                      |
| Dynamic code loading                         | no                     | yes                      |
| Distributed Locking                             | no                    | yes                       |
| C#, Excel client                                   | no                    | yes                      |
| C+ client                                            | no                    | planned                |

Managed* means compressed, encrypted, traffic shaping and centrally monitored.

## Features descriptions
### Hierarchical Data Organisation
The framework acts as a smart file system.

Each collections of data or services is an "Asset" on a tree.  Controls and configuration can be applied to any branch of a tree.  You can remotely access a branch of a tree from one machine to another.

```java
ConcurrentMap<String, String> map = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

TopicPublisher<String, String> pub = acquireTopicPublisher("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

pub.registerTopicSubscriber((k, v) -> System.out.println("key: " + k + ", value: " + v);

// these will trigger the topic subscriber to print;
// key: Hello, value: world
map.put("Hello", "world");
// or
pub.publish("Hello", "world");

String world = map.get("Hello");
```

### remote access to Custom Server side code.
Chronicle Engine supports serialization of lambdas as well as execution of predefined functions by name.

```java
// works on the server or the client.
String value = map.computeIfAbsent("hello", () -> "world");

Map<String, UUID> map2 = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/uuids", String.class, UUID.class);
registerTopicSubscriber(""/group1/sub-group/uuids", String.class, UUID.class, (k, uuid) -> System.out.println("key: " + k + ", uuid: " + uuid);

// for a new uuid the listener prints:
// key: user1, uuid: e2d9e382-2c98-4027-9019-8536fcee3225
UUID uuid = map2.computeIfAbsent("user1", UUID::randomUUID());
```

In this example a user's profile is updates and a listerner is subscribed to changes for that user.
```java
MapView<String, UserProfile> map3 = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/users", String.class, UserProfile.class);

// subscribe to changes to jill's profile
Subscriber<UserProfile> jillSubscription = up -> System.out::println;
registerSubscriber("/group1/sub-group/users/jill", UserProfile.class, jillSubscriber);

// triggers an event which is sent to the jillSubscription
map3.asyncUpdate("jill", UserProfile::incrementUsage);

// doesn't triggers an event for jillSubscription
map3.asyncUpdate("bob", UserProfile::incrementUsage);

class UserProfile {
    long counter;

    public static UserProfile incrementUsage(UserProfile up) {
         if (up == null)
             up = new UserProfile();
         up.counter++;
         return up;
    }
}
```

### Reactive Notification of changes
As seen in the previous example, you can subscribe to change to a map.  If you need more details, you can subscribe to MapEvent(s)

```
Subscriber<TopologicalEvent> topSubscriber = e -> System.out.println("The tree has changed "+e);
registerSubscriber("/group1/sub-group",  TopologicalEvent.class, topSubscriber);

// If map is created dynamically this will trigger
// AddedAssetEvent{ assetName= '/group1/sub-group', name='map' }
ConcurrentMap<String, String> map = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

map.put("one", "won");

// print events as they happen
Subscriber<MapEvent> mapSubscriber = System.out::println;

// triggers a bootstrap of
// InsertedEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'one', value='won' }
registerSubscriber("/group1/sub-group/map", MapEvent.class, mapSubscriber);

// triggers an event
// InsertedEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'two', value='too' }
map.put("two", "too");

// triggers an event
// UpdateEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'two', oldValue = 'too', value='to' }
map.put("two", "too");

// triggers an event
// RemovedEvent{ assetName='/group1/sub-group/map', key= 'one', oldValue = 'won' }
map.remove("one"));
```

### Data View Virtualisation
The same data store can can access in multiple ways to suit the use case of the Developer.  Say a user case is pub/sub but we want the latest value.

```
// setup the publisher for different topics.
TopicPublisher<String, String> pub = acquireTopicPublisher("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

// register a subscriber for any topic in a group on another machine.
registerTopicSubscriber("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class, (k, v) -> System.out.println("key: " + k + ", value: " + v);

// a third machine just wants to be able to see the latest value
ConcurrentMap<String, String> map = acquireMap("/group1/sub-group/map", String.class, String.class);

// these will trigger the topic subscriber to print;
// key: Hello, value: world
map.put("Hello", "world");
// or
pub.publish("Hello", "world");

// to get the latest value.
String world = map.get("Hello");
```

### Low latency repsonse time.
Chronicle Engine which be design and tested to support sub-milli-second response times.  A single client should be able to achieve 10K requests per second with 99.9% of requests being under a milli-second.

Chronicle Enterprise will be tested to a higher spec and will have more heavily optimised components.  A single client should be able to achieve 100K requests per second with 99% of requests being under 100 micro-seconds.

### Code warmup on startup.
Chronicle Engine makes it easy to create a dummy engine to assist in warming up the code you will need in production.

Chronicle Enterprise can trigger the compilation of methods from a previous run e.g. in UAT.  Capture the output of -XX:+PrintCompilation, edit to taste, and use this file to trigger the compilation of these methods on start up.  This works for standard OpenJDK and Oracle JVMs.

```java
// load the methods compiled previously.
Warmup warmup = Warmup.compileFromFile(new File("print-compilation.txt")));
// print out the methods which will be compiled and to which level.
warmup.dump((m, l) -> System.out.println(m + " => " + l));
// start enqueuing the methods to be compiled in the background.
warmup.start();
// wait for those methods to be compiled.
warmup.waitFor();
```

If you have an object to navigate such as an AssetTree you can compile everything it uses and everything that uses etc.
```java
AssetTree tree = // tree of objects.

// load the methods compiled previously.
Warmup warmup = new Warmup();
// print out the methods which will be compiled and to which level.
warmup.compileForInstance(tree);
// start enqueuing the methods to be compiled in the background.
warmup.start();
// wait for those methods to be compiled.
warmup.waitFor();
```

### Chronicle Engine can be viewed on a NFS mount

Start chronicle with 
      
```   
-Dnfs=true
```   
      
to mount :
```  
sudo mount -t nfs localhost:/ /mnt
```  
the following example creates an entry containg key=hello value=world in the asset called /temp

```  
$cd /mnt
$mkdir temp
cd temp
echo hello > world
```  
to unmount :
```  
$sudo umount /mnt
```  


# More details to come.
